title: Places
date: 20/11/2012
tags: komputer

A bit ambiguous, eh?. This time around I will talk about how I was struggled with choosing the _right_ hosting for this blog, I spent almost an entire week finding out which host can serve my way of blogging: static sites, manage-able with repository, and pushing the updates with commits / rysnc style.

As you might already know, this blog is powered by Pelican, a static blog engine written in Python, which making it possible to be hosted _almost_ anywhere, my consideration is of course scalability and reliability. I wanted to host it in places that I don't need to think about scaling, so one obvious place in my mind would be <a href='https://pages.github.com'>Github User Pages</a> where it allows you to put static HTML files in the root of `username.github.com` repository and it will serve the static site for you, dead simple. But I've encountered a single big problem I was never able to solve (_yet_): after few days with several commits, it stopped building, I kept seeing the old version of the static site. I was able to trigger the build by removing the repository, create a new one and push the whole thing again, not a fancy solution. I checked out Twitter to see if anyone else got the same problem, and found them. I also contacted Github to see what they can say, but no words yet. I have to find another host.

Now, we're still talking about scalability and reliability, at this time, I have an Amazon AWS account, and they provide a CDN service, I was thinking that a static site would be a great match when hosted at a CDN. So I set up an S3 bucket, use <a href='https://github.com/seedifferently/boto_rsync'>boto-rsync</a> to sync my build folder into my S3 bucket, set the bucket settings into what they called as `website-mode` and set my DNS to my S3 DNS. It turned out that the domain name has to match the bucket name, I was using different bucket name, and for some _personal_ reason, I can't change my bucket name. I had to use CloudFront.

While S3 is a simple storage service, hosting your files in a specific region, CloudFront is a CDN service to propagate your S3 contents to several edge locations around the globe. I set up a CloudFront distribution, set the default root object to _index.html_ so when people hit _kecebongsoft.com_ the file will be served, and updated my DNS, things worked fine, until I realize that it cannot serve a sub-site. I have some sub-sites containing my HTML5 slides, in a folder such as _slide-blahblah_, now if people hit _kecebongsoft.com/slide-blahblah_, they'll get an _Access Denied_ message, that's because there is no such thing as default object in the subfolder, people will have to hit _kecebongsoft.com/slide-blahblah/index.html_ in order to see the actual content, at this point, I was a bit upset, I looked around and can't find anyone who was able to work around this.

I should set my target a bit lower now, let's just start to think no one cares about my blog, well maybe just a couple of people, so for now I'll just host it in my shared-cloud account, WebFaction. It's really straight forward compared to the other two, I just need to create a site in the Control Panel and rsync my build path into the remote server, that is all, but I sacrificed the scalability, for now it only live in Singapore region, which at this time, should be just okay.

I'm really hoping that I could go back using Github User Pages. If the guy contact me back and solves the problem, it will be a home-call, I liked the User Pages mechanism in a way that you only have to push to the master branch to trigger the build, now if only it works well all the time..
